SigFox wireless technology is based on LTN (Low Throughput Network). 
It is wide area network based technology which supports low data rate communication over larger distances. 
It is used for M2M and IoT applications which transmits only few bytes per day.

SigFox is pioneer in LPWAN technologies for large scale development.
LPWAN is also known as Low Power Wide Area Network. It is a wireless wide area network which varies from 2 km to 1000 km range.

SigFox is one of the perimeter organizations which utilizes LPWAN to interface gadgets to the internet.
This technology remotely interfaces battery operated devices and sensors to the internet.

SigFox offers an end to end network which sends small data packets from sensors through the network and cloud 
to connect the sensors to the digital world.

Sigfox provides the network, the technology and the expert ecosystem, which
are necessary to help companies and organizations make the most of their IoT
ambitions.

SigFox uses less power and is effective over long distances compared to connection 
protocols such as Bluetooth and Wi-Fi which works best in the short range and use more power.

SigFox Network architecture consists of three important elements 
1. objects 
2. base station and
3. the sigfox cloud

1. Objects 
    objects are also generally called devices which include sensors these objects send their data to a base station.

2. base station
    base stations are local sigfox antennas that receive messages from emitting devices and forwards them to the sigfox cloud.

3. the sigfox cloud
    sigfox cloud is a central hub where all the information is stored and data processing takes place


Flat network architecture
    The data is sent over the air to the base stations, then goes through the backhaul.
    The backhaul generally uses DSL connectivity and 3G or 4G as a back-up. When one
    of the two is not available, satellite connectivity can be used as an alternative backup technology.
    
    The back-end handles message processing. There are potentially lots of replicates
    of the same message that arrive on the core network but only one should be stored.
    The core network servers also monitor the status of the network and manages the
    base stations globally.
    
    The network infrastructure also stores the messages in two locations: the metadata
    can be used for building services on one hand and the customers’ messages so that
    customers can retrieve them later on the other hand.
    
    Finally, the web interface and the API allow customers to access their messages.
    They can either access the platform through their web browser or use a REST API to
    synchronize them with their IT system and push downlink messages to the device.

SigFox technology principles
1 Ultra-Narrow Band (UNB)
    Sigfox is using 192KHz of the publicly available band to exchange messages over
    the air. The modulation is Ultra-Narrow band. Each message is 100 Hz wide and
    transferred with a data rate of 100 or 600 bits per second depending on the region.

    This is what enables the Sigfox base stations to communicate over long distances without being impacted by the noise.

2. Random access
    The random access is a key feature to achieve a high quality of service. The
    transmission is unsynchronized between the network and the device. The device
    emits a message on a random frequency and then sends 2 replicas on different
    frequencies and time, which is called “time and frequency diversity”.

3. Cooperative reception
    The principle of the cooperative reception is that an object is not attached to a
    specific base station unlike cellular protocols. The emited message is received by
    any base stations that are nearby and on average the number of base stations is 3.
    This is called “spatial diversity”.

4. Small messages
    In order to address the cost and autonomy constraints of remote objects, Sigfox
    has designed a communication protocol for small messages. The message size goes
    from 0 to 12 bytes. A 12-byte payload is enough to transfer sensor data, the status
    of an event like an alert, GPS coordinates or even application data.
    We have listed some payload size examples:

    GPS coordinates 6 bytes
    Temperature 2 bytes
    Speed reporting 1 bytes
    Object status 1 byte
    «Keep alive» payload 0 byte


High network capacity
The massive capacity of the infrastructure of the Sigfox network is the
result of the factors described earlier:
-> ultra-narrow band modulation has the benefit of being spectrum efficient and
resistant to interferers as all of the energy is concentrated into a very small
bandwidth;
-> frequency and time diversity introduced by the random access;
-> spatial diversity due to the overlapping network cells.

High energy efficiency
->  No pairing is required, which means that no synchronization messages are
exchanged between the object and the base station before transmitting the data.
This is a big advantage compared to other technologies which all include those
additional steps.
-> Also the idle consumption is very low, often a few nanoamperes, which makes it
almost negligible.

Long range (not want to include)
The main competitive advantage of the Sigfox technology is on the deployment
with a large coverage and a limited number of base stations:

Resilience to interference
-> Sigfox utilizes 192KHz Ultra Barrow Band (UNB) integrated with the base station’s spatial diversity 
of +20 dB which facilitate its unique anti-jamming features.
-> the low noise overlap induces intrinsic ruggedness to the Ultra-Narrow band. 
As a result, for a message to be transmitted, the signal should have at least 8 dB.

Sigfox technology presents unique anti-jamming capabilities due to UNB intrinsic
ruggedness coupled with spatial diversity of the base stations.
UNB is extremely robust in an environment with other signals, including spread
spectrum signals. However, spread spectrum networks are affected by UNB signals.
Ultra Narrow Band is therefore the best choice to operate in the public industrial,
scientific and medical (ISM) band.
The high resilience to interferers is key to operate efficiently in the public ISM band.
The best proof of the high resilience to interferers is the capability to transmit
despite the presence of jamming signals. Ultra-narrow band modulation has some
intrinsic ruggedness because the overlap with the noise is very low. For a message
to be received, the signal should be at least 8 dB above the noise floor.

Sigfox security and privacy
Sigfox has an inbuilt firewall that restricts IoT objects to connect or communicate using the internet protocol.
To communicate over the internet, an object sends a radio message that is picked up by the available access stations.
The access station then relays the message to the Sigfox support system that in turn transmits it to the specified destination.
The Sigfox support system also transmits the response to the sender object through the base stations.
The security firewall thus secures the IoT objects from internet related attacks.

Data security
The Sigfox architecture provides a security mechanism that guarantees secure data authentication and replay avoidance.

The Sigfox’s IoT chain involves authentication keys stored which are stored by devices and the customer, this key will be required to access the data stored by the Sigfox System.
Sigfox’s data mechanisms guarantees security within the diverse ecosystem and different local regulations.
The authentication key for every device is unique meaning that a compromise of a device’s authentication security key does not affect the security of other devices.

Application of Sigfox
People, Goods or other type of Asset tracking.
Smart metering communication in the energy sector.
Communication of mHealth applications
Management of automotive communication in the transport sector
Remote control and monitoring.
Security.



https://www.sigfox.com/technology/
https://build.sigfox.com/sigfox#network-overview
https://www.rfwireless-world.com/Tutorials/Sigfox-tutorial.html
https://www.avnet.com/wps/wcm/connect/onesite/03aebfe2-98f7-4c28-be5f-90638c898009/sigfox-technical-overview.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&CVID=magVa.N&CVID=magVa.N&CVID=magVa.N#:~:text=Sigfox%20is%20using%20192KHz%20of,second%20depending%20on%20the%20region.
https://circuitdigest.com/article/what-is-sigfox-basics-architecture-and-security-features#:~:text=Application%20of%20Sigfox&text=People%2C%20Goods%20or%20other%20type,communication%20in%20the%20transport%20sector
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jcYoNvkorOY&t=5s
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sigfox
    

sigfox follows a top down approach 
the company owns all of its technology from back end data and cloud server to the endpoint software the end points are an open market 
it gives away the technology to any vendor until and unless some business terms are agreed upon thus sigfox is also known as Uber of IoT 
here are some technical differences between a few LP van technologies these technical aspects make each of the technology stand up but 
in a different way as one technology cannot determine its feasibility for specific applications one technology cannot serve all purposes 
and so each one of them is better suited for different use cases you can also check out our previous learned technology in five minute 
videos on NBA IoT and Laura from the video description to know more about these topics so how does 


any sigfox network uses three technologies to achieve its features they have differential phase shift key frequency shift key and ultra 
narrow band technology if you're not familiar with these terms please check out the links given in the video description to learn more 
about them before proceeding uplink signals generally encounter more interference than downlink signals as differential phase shift key 
is bandwidth efficient compared to frequency shift key the power is concentrated and more robustness to indifference is gained since 
interference is not much of a concern for downlink signals the main goal is to reach as many applications as efficiently as possible 
frequency shift key offers more bandwidth thereby giving more space to send a signal to reach more applications ultra narrow band is 
a technology where signals are sent very infrequently thereby requiring very little power due to the use of differential phase shift
 keying frequency shift keying and ultra narrowband technology sigfox is capable of sending data over long ranges now you might be 
 wondering why we should use sigfox for IoT applications sigfox offers a genuine communication solution where the cloud handles all 
 the networking and computing complexity one it is easy to install no cables or complicated setups are required to it is economical 
 radio modules required for sigfox are less expensive when compared to other LP van technologies three it is energy efficient seek fox 
 is the best option for simple devices due to the low data rate battery life of devices is prolonged 4 it can be used for long range 
 communication sigfox has a data transmission capability of approximately 10 kilometers in urban settings and about 40 kilometers in 
 rural areas owing to all the advantages sigfox can surely be deployed in various applications let's take a look at some of them one 
 energy related communications example smart metering to measure and report meter readings for energy consumption transport example 
 automotive management three healthcare example temperature monitoring for vaccines and sleep monitoring for home and consumer goods 
 examine smart bottle caps with reminders to stay hydrated 5 security examined security cameras with face recognition and alerts 
 sigfox is already operational and has 16 million devices connected to its network that is all